At a high level, I appreciate this contribution. The need for a visual analytics tool that can handle brain imaging datasets is well motivated. The case studies show some nice abilities (e.g. a tool to detect outliers, the ability to look at a full correlation matrix). That said, I feel the presentation of BRAVIZ in the paper could be improved by addressing the concerns below.

1) The overall BRAVIZ architecture shown in Figure 1 seems to follow a Model-View-Controller pattern. The project files are the model in this case, the applications are the views, and the controller is identified by the region in grey in Figure 1. Given that BRAVIZ follows this type of architectural pattern, I expected it to be presented in the same fashion (i.e. a section describing the model part, a section describing the view part, a section describing the controller part). Instead, the paper seems to focus on the views/applications at the expense of the rest of the architecture. This leaves me with many questions regarding the overall architecture, specifically:
   a) How do you import data into BRAVIZ? Is BRAVIZ connected to a PACS system where importing is automatic, or does the   user have to import data manually? 
   b) Can BRAVIZ automatically create variables from image header information (e.g. DICOM headers can store various clinical variables. Do those DICOM variables become BRAVIZ variables automatically or do those variables have to be manually entered)?
   c) How much user interaction is required to get BRAVIZ up and running on a dataset? Is this level of user interaction low enough to make BRAVIZ appealing to the clinicians that are meant to use it?
   d) What does BRAVIZ do if a clinical or imaging variable is missing values for a given sample/subject? Is there any sanity checking or standardization that is performed when data is entered into BRAVIZ?
   e) Regarding the controller: can two users operate on the same BRAVIZ project at the same time? In particular, would the changes of one user interfere with changes from the second user in such a situation? 
   f) Also regarding the controller: you mention in Section 4.3.5 that BRAVIZ has a real-time communication mechanism. It would be good to clarify that the communication being referred to here is communication between applications and not communication between users. I assume that's the case, correct?
   g) Regarding the annotation views/applications: Is there a limit to the types of image-based variables I can create? For example, can I define a normalized ventricle volume variable that is the percentage of the brain occupied by the ventricles (and not just the ventricle size)?
   h) What is the "Check Registration" view/application? It is not discussed in the paper.
   i) For the "Parallel Coordinates" view/application, could you provide some intuition for this application's use? For example, when should I use this tool? And when I use it, how do I know if I've found something interesting?
   j) Finally, it would be good to explicitly list the different views/applications in BRAVIZ so that you can refer to them by name in the case studies section.

2) In section 4.1, you mention various needs that a clinical user has for a tool like BRAVIZ. It would be very helpful to explicitly list those needs, then discuss how BRAVIZ meets (or doesn't meet) each of those needs.

3) In the case studies section, there seems to be a strong focus on the clinical task and little discussion about how BRAVIZ is being used. My understanding is that the goal of this paper is to highlight the value of BRAVIZ as an informatics tool, so focusing almost entirely on the clinical task in this section is confusing. I am left with many questions regarding the case studies, specifically:
   a) How did the user interact with BRAVIZ during these case studies? When did they import data? When did they visualize data? When did they do statistical analysis? In what order were these tasks done? Were they done in the non-linear fashion that your software uniquely supports? In short, how did BRAVIZ guide your exploration of your dataset in order to find interesting results? 
   b) What did BRAVIZ provide in these case studies that other software packages do not? For example, at one point you examine the correlation between ITT and maCC fiber length. Was that an examination that BRAVIZ suggested in some way (e.g. by highlighting strong correlations and bringing them to your attention)? If not, could this examination have been done just as simply with, say, 3D Slicer? Similarly, was the relationship between M1 excitability and Infanib something that BRAVIZ brought to your attention? If so, how?
   c) At what point in the user interactions did BRAVIZ help identify an interesting result or provide insight into your dataset? Could these insights have been found without BRAVIZ? If so, did BRAVIZ make them easier to find? In short, emphasize where BRAVIZ provided help over what existing tools provide.
   d) What annotations, if any, were done in BRAVIZ in order to perform these case studies? How much time did the user take to create those annotations? Was it a reasonable amount of time?
   e) I would recommend trying to reduce the number of clinical acronyms used in the case studies section. I found that they made the text difficult to follow and made it hard for me to figure out how BRAVIZ was being used in this process.

4) A minor comment: Please present the figures in the order they are referred to in the text. Also try to place the figures near the text that describes them.

Ultimately, I belive that BRAVIZ can be a useful contribution, but I am interested in knowing more specific information about how BRAVIZ is setup (including its limitations) as well specific details about what makes BRAVIZ novel in comparison to competing software tools (e.g. 3D Slicer, BrainVISA). By addressing the comments above, the authors can provide me with the information I'll need in order to make a decision on this manuscript.



Reviewer #2: This paper presents a visual analytics tool BRAVIZ for data-driven brain research. The software, BRAVIZ emphasizes brain images as the main object of the analysis process and provides a unified framework for various tasks including interactive visualization and real-time statistical analysis. In order to facilitate data exploratory analysis, BRAVIZ features direct link between structural and clinical data as well as easy data manipulation and comparison. Besides, the real-time communication mechanism utilized in BRAVIZ which favors switching among different applications and working in collaborative mode. The two case studies shows the capability of BRAVIZ for understanding dataset and revealing hidden relationships among different data types, which would possibly help experts to propose hypothesis on disease prediction.
 
Many auxiliary tools for neuroimaging research have already been put into use, exposing their merits as well as their limitations.  Identifying their shortcomings and the trend in data exploration research, BRAVIZ integrates multiple statistical analysis tools in one place orienting in data-driven research without specific hypothesis. With trivial configuration hidden behind, BRAVIZ provides a platform where the data and the task are the main focuses of users. Referring to the paper, viewing, measurement and manipulation of data are made easy and intuitive for users, encouraging an immersive environment when exploring data. The two cases study applying BRAVIZ to different brain dataset exploration tasks show its adaptiveness, application flexibility and effectiveness in practical applications. This paper clearly points out the research gap in exploratory analysis and proposes the tool BRAVIZ to improve user experience and usefulness of auxiliary tool in data exploration.

My major concern about this paper is, how would BRAVIZ deals with large dataset, meaning the number of participants involved in a research is very large? The applications in BRAVIZ for analysis would display extremely complicated figures, making searching of data of interest difficult to be achieved. Does BRAVIZ provide special mechanism for large dataset? Scalability is not addressed in this paper. 

The first paragraph of page three is a duplication of its previous paragraph? The meanings of these two paragraphs are almost the same and most of the phrasings are similar. Another minor concern is, the font size used in Fig. 13 is too small to identify the variables stated in the context.

I am not sure of the significance of its scientific contributions but it is clearly a good application/engineering paper.It would be a good reference for researchers who would like to dig deeper into implementing a better tool than existing ones. I will recommend the paper to be shortened and submitted as an application paper.



Reviewer #3: This paper presents a visual analytics tool (BRAVIZ) for exploratory analysis of human brain and function database. Compared with existing tools, BRAVIZ automates many cumbersome and error-prone tasks that makes the exploratory analysis easier. BRAVIZ integrates interactive visualization with real-time statistical analyses and facilitates exploration of trends or relationships to gain an integrated view of the phenomena.

BRAVIZ provides great convenience for exploratory analysis of human brain, but I think this paper lacks of the details of implementation and techniques of how to find the relationships of different data. In writing, this paper is well organized, and the results are pretty good. I think it is very convenient for the doctors. 

However, the overall content of this paper does not fit the topic of this journal very well. Doctors may be more interested with this work. I suggest authors to resubmit it to a medical journal as the technical paper.